---
title: WAN Failover
toc: true
---

## Introduction
Ensure uninterrupted cloud connectivity by combining up to 4 different internet mediums, creating a highly resilient network configuration. WAN Failover is a critical feature that enhances network reliability, ensuring that your connection remains stable even if one or more of your Internet links experience issues.

#### Rapid Link Fault Detection and Recovery:
The system continuously monitors the status of each WAN link, detecting faults within seconds. In the event of a link failure, the system will automatically reroute traffic to the next available interface in the order of priority. This failover process is designed to complete within 30 seconds, minimizing downtime and maintaining seamless connectivity for your applications and services.

#### Comprehensive Link Monitoring:
The system offers link throughput and SNMP (Simple Network Management Protocol) monitoring, allowing you to view real-time traffic metrics without needing to log directly into the device. This feature provides valuable insights into the performance and health of each WAN connection, helping you to diagnose issues and optimize network performance proactively.

#### Interface Prioritization:
Each interface listed in the WAN Failover settings represents one of the internet mediums connected to your router. By rearranging the order of these interfaces, you can designate the primary data path for outbound traffic. The router will prioritize the first interface listed, using it as the primary link until a failure occurs, at which point it will automatically switch to the next available link. Any changes made to the interface order will take approximately 60 seconds to apply.

#### Detailed Traffic Statistics:
The WAN Failover feature provides a range of traffic statistics on a per-link basis. You can monitor key metrics such as **latency, packet loss, jitter, and traffic throughput** for each WAN connection. These statistics help you understand the quality and performance of your internet links, allowing you to make informed decisions about network management and troubleshooting.

By leveraging WAN Failover, you can significantly enhance the reliability and performance of your cloud connectivity, ensuring that your network remains robust and operational even in the face of individual link failures.

---
## Setting up WAN Failover
Setting up WAN Failover is a lot easier than it sounds, so let's do that.

### Step 1: Select your Site.
First,  from your Dashboard, click on `Sites` in order to navigate to the site which you want to allocate the WAN Failover Interface to.

### Step 2: Enable and Add WAN Failover Service
With your Site selected, navigate to the `WAN Failover` tab on the left hand side.

Select `Enable` in order to activate the WAN Failover service for your selected site.

### Step 3: Configure the WAN Failover Interface(s)
After Enabling the WAN failover, you will see **2 un-configured wan interfaces** underneath your WAN Failover tab.

Click on the `WAN 1` interface's **gear icon** in order to configure the interface.

A small window will pop up, which you can use to set up the WAN Failover interface.

Set up a gateway that already has an IP address configured and that has a default route with internet connectivity. Additionally, if you enter custom gateway interface, it must be an exact match to that configured on the router. The gateway interface field is used to identify the physical or logical interface that is associated with the gateway. 

## Manage WAN Failover
### Manually Initiating a WAN Failover
### Routing Distances
### Troubleshooting

## Removing WAN Failover