---
title: Identity Providers
toc: True
---

This document will outline some steps that you can take to get your identity providers set up. It's important to note that this is an extremely important step in your Captive portal instance set up, thus why we are going to discuss this first before moving on to setting up the Captive Portal Instance.

We will discuss the setup for the following **3 Identity Providers:**
| Identity Providers: |
| --- |
| [Microsoft Azure (Entra)](#microsoft-azure-entra-id) |
| [Google Cloud]() |
| [GitHub]() |

---

## Microsoft Azure (Entra)
**Microsoft Entra** is a cloud-based identity and access management service from Microsoft, encompassing services like **Entra (formerly known as Microsoft Azure AD)**. It helps organizations manage user identities and secure access to applications and resources.

**OAuth 2 Integrations:** With OAuth 2.0, Microsoft Entra (Azure AD) allows your users to authenticate using their corporate credentials to access applications securely without needing additional login credentials.

<Tiles path="/documentation/captive-portal/identity-providers/microsoft-azure"></Tiles>

---
## Google Cloud
**Google Cloud** is a cloud-based computing service offered by Google. It provides a range of hosting and computing services for building, testing, deploying and managing applicaions and websites on Google's highly scalable and reliable infrastructure.

**OAuth 2 Integrations:** OAuth 2.0 allows users to authenticate with their Google Cloud accounts, granting access to third-party applications using their Google credentials without exposing their login details.

<Tiles path="/documentation/captive-portal/identity-providers/google"></Tiles>

---
## GitHub
**GitHub** is a widely used platform for version control and collaborative software development. It offers services for managing repositories, tracking issues and collaborating on code.

**OAuth 2 Integrations:** Using OAuth 2.0, applications can allow users to log in with their GitHub accounts, providing a seamless authentication experience using their GitHub credentials.
<Tiles path="/documentation/captive-portal/identity-providers/github"></Tiles>

---