---
title: "Users"
---

## The ownership of resources

There are two ways to create a new user:
1. **By registering as a new user**
2. **By creating a new user from the MikroCloud portal**

### Registering as a new user
New users can register for an account by visiting the MikroCloud registration page.

MikroCloud allows registration 

* After registration, they must verify their email address.
* Upon successful email verification, the user must create an organization account.
* During the organization creation process, a default team is created for the user - this is referred to as the user's "primary team".
* The user is automatically added to the primary team.


* A user created through the registration workflow must
* All resources (like sites, policies, and devices) within MikroCloud belong to a team.
* A team belongs to a user
* 

A user can only own one organization, but an organization can have multiple teams.

## Understanding the Concept of a User

A **user** can be categorized into these types:

| Type              | Log In | Receive Notifications | Own Resources |
|-------------------|--------|-----------------------|---------------|
| Notification User | No     | Yes                   | No            |
| Portal User       | Yes    | Yes                   | Yes           |

### What is a Notification User

Notification users are individuals within your organization who need to receive automated communications,
such as network outage notifications or SLA reports, but do not require access to log into the MikroCloud portal.

### What is a Portal User

Portal users are individuals within your organization that need to access the MikroCloud portal to manage network
devices, view reports, or perform other tasks.
Portal users can also receive notifications.

There are two ways to create a new user:

1. **By registering as a new user**
2. **By creating a new user from the MikroCloud portal**

### Granting someone access to your MikroCloud resources

All resources within MikroCloud belong to a team.
To grant someone access to your resources, you need to add them to the team that owns the resources.

There are two ways to add a user to a team:

1. **Create a new user Portal User:**
2. **Invite an existing user to join your team:**

## Email Verification

## Mobile Number Verification

## Two-Factor Authentication

## Account Recovery
